= gizzmo

Gizzmo is a command-line client for managing gizzard clusters.

== Installation and setup

Installation is a simple gem install.  You may find it useful to create a ~/.gizzmorc file, which is simply YAML key/values.  The keys are the long-style command line option keys converted into Ruby-style variables.  A common .gizzmorc will simply be:

    host: localhost
    port: 7920

== Usage

Run `gizzmo help` for up-to-date usage.

== Recipes

=== Block and unblock a shard

    BLOCKER=`gizzmo wrap com.twitter.gizzard.shards.BlockedShard a_shard`
    
    gizzmo unwrap $BLOCKER

=== Reweight a shard safely (the hard way)

    NEW_WEIGHT=1
    REPL=`gizzmo wrap com.twitter.service.flock.edges.ReplicatingShard a_shard`
    PARENT=`gizzmo links $REPL | cut -f 1 | grep -v $REPL | head -1`
    gizzmo addlink $PARENT a_shard $NEW_WEIGHT
    gizzmo unwrap $REPL
    
== Contributing

Contributions are welcome!  Please send a pull request, or if you're internal to Twitter, please make a branch!  Commits to master, and/or patches without minimal test coverage will be rejected/reverted.

== Running tests

The tests may be somewhat difficult to run outside of Twitter.  They assume that:

* You don't mind blowing away the data in your dev environment.
* Your MySQL username and password are in the environment variables DB_USERNAME and DB_PASSWORD

To execute the tests:

1. Build the included test server (once):

        // create the database for the local nameserver
        echo "create database gizzard_test_integration_ns;" | mysql
        // retrieve test server dependencies
        cd test_server ; sbt update

2. Start the test server (with service, injector, management ports of 7918, 7919, 7920 respectively):

        cd test_server ; sbt "run 7918 7919 7920"

3. Run ./test/test.sh

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Twitter, Inc. See LICENSE for details.
 
